Hey there. How's it going everybody in this video?
We're going to be looking at how to read parse and write
CSV files now if you don't know what CSV files are it stands for comma separated values basically
CSV files allow us to put into a plain text file
Some data and use some type of delimiter usually a comma to separate the different fields now
I have a sample CSV file here that we can work with and if we look at this then we can see how these are
Usually structured so this can kind of look like a mess, but it's not really meant to be read directly
This is just how the data is stored
And then we can use our programs to parse out the information that we want, but we can see that the top
Line here has our fields now our fields in this file are first name
Last name and email so that tells us the information that we should expect to see on every line
so if I go to the next line here
then we can see that John is the first name and then a comma
though is the last name and then a comma and then
This long email here is the email so that's why these are called comma separated values and what separates two values is called a delimiter
So the comma is a common delimiter
But you can use just about anything so sometimes you'll see files with tab delimited values or dashes or things like that
But they're all called CSV files. So now let's see what it's like to read parts and write to CSV files
So I have a file here called Parse CSV pie and within this file
We're just going to import CSV now you may have looked at that Data and wondered
Why we're just not using it the strings split method on each line of the file to parse out the data and you could do
That but the CSV module just makes parsing these files so much easier
so for example if someone puts a comma or something in their name for some reason then we wouldn't want to split on that and
also the CSV module will handle new lines and all those things so it just makes it a lot easier to parse out all the
Information that we want without writing something complicated from scratch okay, so to read the CSV file
We're just going to open this file. Just like any other file
So we'll use a context manager here
And we'll say with open and the name of that file that I was just looking at is now
CSV, and it's in the same directory as the file that I'm currently writing and we want to read this file
So we'll put an r there as the second value and now what we want to call this so we'll say CSV file
So to read this file
We can say CSV reader and that can be any variable name that you like, but that's what I like
And then we can say CSV and then use this reader method and then pass that
CSV file in to that reader method now in the background that reader method is using something called a dialect that has some preset parameters
for what it expects the format of our CSV file to be so by default it's
expecting values to be
Separated by a comma and a few other things that we'll look at in
Just a bit, but since our CSV file is pretty simple
We don't need to pass any additional arguments right now
So the CSV reader variable that we just created is going to be something that we need to iterate over
So for example if we just print this out as is so print
CSV reader and run that then we can see that right now. It's just an object in memory, so instead
We need to loop over all these lines in the reader and see what we get so we can say for line in
CSV reader and then print out each line
And we'll run that ok so that looks better so each line that
We're printing out is a list of all the values so the first value in the list is the name as the first name
The second value in the list is the last name and the email is the third value if I scroll all the way up to
the top you can see that our first line is the
field names so it tells us that the you know first value this first name last name is the
Second value and Third value is email
so for example if we're going by the
Index like this would be index 0 and then 1 and then the email would be index 2 if we only wanted to print out
All of the indexes then on this line here, we could say let's print out index 2 of each line
And if we run that and we can see that now we get all of the emails printed out now if you don't want this
First line of the field names and only want the values then we can just skip that first line
so if anyone has seen my video on generators
and we can actually step over value an iterable by calling next and running next we'll
Return the next value if we want to capture that in a variable
But if we just want to step over the value then we can come up here before our list. We can just say next
CSV reader and that will loop over that first line
And then when we iterate through this it should start at the second value
Which is the first person in the list so now if we rerun this and scroll up to the top?
Now we can see that that John doe is now the first value, okay?
So now let's see how we can write to a CSV file now
We can do this with any list values, but since we're already have a list of values here from our original CSV file
Let's go ahead and just use those so let's say that we wanted to save these same values into a new CSV file
But use dashes instead of commas for the delimiter now
Dash is probably isn't a great delimiter, but I just want to show you something that happens when we do this now first
We're going to want to write the field name headers into the new file
So let's take out this next statement where we're skipping over those so
Now I'll come down here and now actually above our loop
we're going to want to open a new file for writing and
So we'll say with open and we'll call this file new underscore names
CSV
We want to open this for writing
so the second argument is aw, then we'll say as and we'll just call this a
variable new file and to write to this file
We're going to use a CSV writer so we can say CSV writer and that can be any variable name
But that makes sense to me and we'll do CSV and then use this writer
Method and we're going to pass in new file to that writer method now if we left it like this then it would just write
the same comma
Separated file that we currently have now but if we want to use dashes as our delimiter
Then we need to pass that in as an argument
So it's going to be the second argument to that writer method and we can say delimiter equals
And we'll just go use a dash now
We want to write each line of our original CSV file into this new file, so let's indent our for loop over here
So that now we're within the context manager of this new file and for each
Line in this CSV reader. Which is our original file
We want to write that to a new file so we can do that by saying
CSV writer dot write Row and
The row that we want to write is that line from the original reader?
So real quick before I run this we are opening the original file to be read and then we're creating this CSV
reader
variable and we are
using the CSV reader method to read that original CSV file
and then we're opening a new file for writing called new Names CSV and
Then we're creating a CSV writer
variable and we're using this writer method of the CSV module to
Open up a writer using that new file with a delimiter of a dash and then for each line in this original
CSV data we are writing out to the new file each line of the original file
So now if we run this then we don't have any output here at the bottom
But it should have created this new file called new named CSV and I'll go ahead and open that up now
We can see in this new file that. It's using dashes instead of commas for the delimiter now
This makes it pretty hard to read, but I wanted to show you what it did with two of our values here
So in our first value the email actually contained a dash so we can see here that our
CSV writer knew to put quotes around the email
Since it can't contain that delimiter
And that's so when the CSV is read back in that it would know that the email is
One whole value and that it shouldn't be split on the dash within the email itself and likewise here
We can see that our second person here has a hyphenated last name of Smith Robinson
so again the CSV writer knew to put quotes around the last name so that it can tell the difference between the
delimiters and the values that just happen to contain dashes
So now that we've seen how that works let's actually change this delimiter for the new file to something
that's a bit more common, so aside from
Commas tabs are very common Des limiters
So let's use tab instead and in python the tab can be represented with this backslash t
and if we rerun that and then open up the new names file again
Then we can see that now all the values are separated by tabs instead. That's a lot more easier
That's a lot more easy to read now
Just like we passed the delimiter into our writer if we wanted to read in that tab delimited file
then you could pass the delimiter argument into the reader as well, and
Real quick let me show you what that would look like if we tried to read a CSV file with the wrong delimiter
So let me copy part of this here where we're reading in this file
And now I'm just going to comment out everything else for now now instead of reading the original file names
CSV
We're instead going to read the new tab delimited file that we just created which is new underscore names CSV now
Let's pretend that we forgot to
Specify the Tab delimiter and just try to read this as is so let's print out the lines that we get from this reader
So we'll say four line in
CSV reader and we will print out each line
So we can see that each line only has one value
And it didn't split on the values on the tab because it was expecting commas
So instead you have to explicitly pass in that we want the delimiter to be a tab
so I'll pass that into the reader method here and say delimiter equals a
Backslash t for tab and then rerun that and now you can see that we get the correct parsing okay?
so now I'm going to delete these lines here and
Uncomment out what we had before
Okay, so the way that we've been working with CSV files using the reader and writer is probably the more common way to work with
CSV data since they're the first things that come up in the python documentation
But my preferred method is working with CSV data
using the dictionary reader and the dictionary writer
So let's take a look at those and I'll explain why I prefer them over the regular reader and writer okay, so first
Let's take a look at the dictionary reader
So to use this we're just going to replace the regular reader method here with a dict
Reader and now let's print out the lines that we give with this so I'll say four line in
CSV reader and we'll just print out each line
Okay, so at first glance this may look a little more complicated each of the values is now an ordered dictionary and if we scroll
Up here to the top then we can see that that first line no longer contains the field names
It starts off immediately with the first person
So the reason is that the field names are now the keys of each of these values here now the reason
I like this is because it makes it a lot easier to parse out the information that we want so for example remember when we
Use the regular reader if we wanted to print out the email
Address then we printed out the second index of our line well for anyone reading your code
It isn't obvious what that second index is so they'd have to go into the CSV file to find that information out
But now that we have those
Fields as our dictionary keys then we can get the email here by saying
I just want the
Email of that line
So we just access that key so now if we rerun that we can see that now we have all of the email information
Okay, and now let's look at how to use the dictionary writer
So I'm going to remove this loop and then uncomment out the rest of this information here
Now with the dictionary reader. We really didn't need to change anything, but with the dictionary writer
We actually have to provide the field names of our file, so one line above our writer here
I'm just going to create a list of the field names
And now instead of using this writer method. We're instead going to use dict writer
Now one thing that we need to change there here is that after the file that we're going to be writing to we need to?
Pass in those field names, so I'll say field names is equal to field names
Okay, and now we're ready to write the data so with the dictionary writer you have the option of whether or not you want to
Write out those headers. Which are the field names in the first row
so if we want those headers, which most of the time I do then we can say
CSV writer Dot right
header
So that's going to write out those field names as the first line and once the header is written out
We can loop through the lines of the original file
Just like we did before and say CSV writer dot right row and then pass in that line so all of that stays the same
so if we run this and then look over here at our new names CSV file then we can see that that still worked and
Like I said before the reason I like working with the dictionary reader and writer is because it's more obvious what you're doing
So let's say for example that in our new CSV file
We actually only wanted the first and last names and wanted to leave off the email well with the regular reader and writer
We'd be modifying the indexes of those list and like I mentioned before it's not obvious by looking at an index
What value it's supposed to hold but with our dictionary writer? We can just remove the email from the field names up here and
Before we write each line within our loop here
We can just remove the email key and value and one way to do that is to just delete it so we can say
delete the
email of
That line so now when it writes that row it's only going to be writing the first name and the last name and the email
no longer exists
So now if we save that and run it and then I open up the new names dot CSV file here then you can see
That now we just have a tab delimited file of first names and last names and that email is no longer there
Now there are several ways that we could have written this row. We could have deleted the email key from Line
Just like we did here or we could have created a new dictionary?
With only the first name and last name keys and passed that into the right Road method
So whichever way works for you in this case. I think it was easier
Just to remove the email key okay, so I think that is going to do it for this video
I hope that now you have a pretty good idea for how you can read parse and write CSV files
But if anyone does have any questions about what we covered in this video
then feel free to ask in the comment section below and I'll do my best to answer those and if you enjoy these tutorials and
Would like to support them and there are several ways you can do that the easiest ways to simply like the video and give it
a thumbs up and also
It's a huge help to share these videos with anyone who you think would find them useful and if you have the means you can
contribute through Patreon
And there's a link to that page in the description section below be sure to subscribe for future videos and thank you all for watching
you